# COVID ESTIMATOR - Simulation of a pandemic
## Population and cells
The program is given a total number of people that will be used in a simulation. The number is saved in a variable populacija. The programme is adapted to my home country of Slovenia where there are on average around 2.6 people per household. The people are then randomly divided into cells (households) differentiating in size from 1 to 10, the majority being the size 2 and 3 as the data suggests (normal distribution). Each cell holds the index of the person that resides within it, the status and the day the status changes.
## People and their attributes
Each person created within the programme is assigned a state (stanje): healthy (dovzetni), infectious but not yet sick (kužni), sick (bolni) and resistant (odporni). They are also assigned a sprememba (the day, on which the status changes). This way we can know for each person if they are healthy or not, and when did the change occur.
## Other parameters
D stands for number of healthy people, K for infectious, B for sick and O for resitant. Parameter a1 is used in equation which calculates how infectious people infect (they don't know they are infectious) and so is a2. Parameter a2 is significantly lower beacuse we presume that sick people behave differently and therefore less people can become sick beacuse of them. Variable 'cas' holds the information for how many days do we want the simulation to run. Around 10% of the population is presumably immune from the start and cannot get sick.
## How do you get infectious
The equation used in this exercise is ((a1 * K + a2 * B) * D) which resembles newly infected people every day. At the end of each day the numbers D, K, B in O change according to this equation and according to the sick cells. Each Cell is healthy until one of the members becomes infectious, then it is immediately placed amongst infectious cells. We presume, that one day after the first (or the first 2, 3, ...) member has been infected, the whole cell becomes infectious. When the person/cell change status the day on which it occured is stored in tha attribute sprememba.
## How do you become sick
We have a list of daily possibilities to get sick which peak the 5th day and fall to 0 the 11th day. Beacuse we know which day the person became infectious, we know if he got sick in the following 10 days. If he doesnt, he becomes immune/resilient, similary with cells. With cells we presume (beacuse of simplicity) that if at a certain day a member becomes sick, the whole cell gets sick.
